how pytest works:
when "pytest" word typed and press enter in a directory, follwing will happen:
it will goto pytest.ini file and read the configuration
If no arguments are specified then collection starts from testpaths (if configured) or the current directory.
Recurse into directories
In those directories, search for "test_*.py" or ""*_test.py" files, imported by their test package name.
"test" prefixed test functions or methods outside of class.
"test" prefixed test functions or methods inside Test prefixed test classes (without an __init__ method).
Methods decorated with @staticmethod and @classmethods are also considered.

this is how pytest project structure should be
api-automation/
│
├── tests/
│
├── utils/
│
├── config/
│
├── reports/report.html --self-contained-html → embedd css, js into the html file
│
├── conftest.py
├── pytest.ini
├── requirements.txt
└── README.md

 Running Tests (Commands Cheat Sheet)

Command    Purpose
pytest    Run all tests
pytest -v    Verbose output like test name, test class, test file and test result
pytest -q    Quiet mode
pytest test_file.py    Run one file
pytest test_file.py::test_name    Run one test
pytest tests/    Run folder
pytest -x    Stop on first failure
pytest -s    print statements will be shown in the console

skip → skip test
skipif → skip if condition is true
xfail → test runs, if failure not occur then it will be marked as xpassed,
                   if failure occur then it will be marked as xfailed

what is pytest?
Pytest is a Python testing framework that supports simple syntax, powerful fixtures,
and scalable automation for unit, API, and UI testing.

What is a fixture?
A fixture is a reusable function that provides test setup, data, or resources and
is injected into tests by pytest

Difference between fixture and function?
A fixture supports dependency injection and lifecycle management,
whereas a function must be called manually.

Difference between yield and return in fixtures?
return provides data only, whereas yield supports setup before and teardown after test execution.

What are markers?
Markers are labels used to group tests and selectively execute them (e.g., smoke, regression).

Why register markers?
To avoid warnings and to provide metadata for test categorization

What is pytest.ini?
It is a configuration file used to define pytest settings like markers, options, and test discovery rules.

what is conftest.py?
It is used to define shared fixtures and hooks that are automatically discovered by pytest.

Difference between pytest.ini and conftest.py?
pytest.ini contains configuration, while conftest.py contains fixtures.

What is parametrization?
Parametrization runs the same test multiple times with different input data.

How do you parametrize a test?
Using @pytest.mark.parametrize with input values and expected results.
example:
@pytest.mark.parametrize("input, expected", [(1, 2), (2, 3), (3, 4)])
or
@pytest.mark.parametrize("input", [1, 2, 3])
or
@pytest.fixture(params=[1, 2, 3])
def my_fixture(request):
    return request.param

What is fixture scope?
Fixture scope defines how often a fixture is created and destroyed during test execution.
"Scopes include function, class, module, package, session."
define fixture scope is function
order are scope, dependency and auto-use

How to generate an HTML report?
Using pytest-html with --html=report.html --self-contained-html.

How to pass fixtures to tests?
By declaring the fixture name as a test function argument.

Can a fixture call another fixture?
Yes, fixtures can depend on other fixtures by accepting them as parameters.

pytest -q --html=reports/report.html --self-contained-html